1. Type into GCP's search engine VPC and click on 'VPC networks' from the list of options then click on 'Create VPC NETWORK' at the top of the page
2. Type in any name according to your own naming convention.  You can also use that name for the 'Description' box also
3. Scroll down to 'Subnets' and under 'New subnet' type in a name and description(optional)
4. Pick a region
5. Under 'IPv4 range type in an IPv4 address range
6. For purposes of this lab you don't need to turn on 'Private Google Access', 'Flow logs', or Hybrid Subnets
7. Click on 'ADD SUBNET'(again no need to turn on 'Private Google Access', 'Flow logs', or Hybrid Subnets for this lab)
8. Leave the rest as the default values and click on the blue 'Create' button at the bottom
9. Click on your particular VPC that you just made under 'VPC networks
10. Click on 'SUBNETS' and because we're making a {"REGIONAL" APPLICATOIN LOAD BALANCER} make sure that both of your subnets are in the same region by observing the 'Region'     section
11. Leaving this page alone (YOUR VPC TAB) for now(advisable) make 2 new tabs for 'Compute Engine' and 'Cloud Nat'. 3 tabs in total
12. Using your 'Cloud Nat' page click on 'Get Started' that will take you to 'Create Cloud Nat gateway' page
13. Type in a name under 'Gateway name' 
14. Turn on Public under 'Nat type'
15. Under 'Select Cloud Router' choose your VPC
16. Choose 'YOUR' region
17. Click on the box 'Cloud Router' and click on 'CREATE NEW ROUTER' which will bring up a another small page inside this window
18. Type in a name and leave everything else as the default values then click on the blue 'CREATE' button then this page will disappear
19. Leave everything else as the default values then click on the blue 'CREATE' button at the bottom of this page
20. Goto your 'Compute Engine' tab and click/choose 'Instance templates' on the left column then click on 'Create instance template'
21. Type in a name of your choosing
22. Under 'Location' make sure 'Regional(recommended)' is on
23. Under 'Advanced options' open 'Networking' and type in a name under 'Network tags' and note it somewhere for later use(VERY IMPORTANT) YOU'RE GOING TO NEED THIS NAME LATER!
24. Goto 'Network interaces' and when you open DO NOT CLICK 'ADD a network interface' OR THE TRASH CAN(VERY IMPORTANT).  It'll say 'default' with a small arrow to it's left; click on that small arrow to the left of the word 'default'
25. Click on where it says 'default' and choose your VPC'
26. Under 'Subnetwork' choose a subnet
27. Under 'External IPv4 address' box click the box and choose 'None' then right after click the word 'Done'
28. Scroll down to 'Management'  and under 'Automation' you're going to paste a start up script( I use Beron the Great's wonderful start-up script) into the 'Automation' box
29. Click on the 'Create' button at the bottom of the page
30. In the left column click on 'Instance groups'
31. Click on 'Create Instance Group'
32. Type in a name
33. Under 'Instance template' choose your template name
34. Under 'Location' choose 'Multiple zones' 
35. Choose your Region and Zones
36. Under 'Autoscaling'
37. Leave 'Autoscaling mode to the default(for now)
38. Under 'Minimum number of instance let's choose 3 and under 'Maximum number of instances' let's choose 5(for now)
39. Under 'Autohealing' open the box that says 'Health check' and 'Create a health check'
40. Type it a name
41. Under 'Scope' for 'Protocol'make sure it says 'TCP' and the 'Port' to be set at 80.  
42. Under 'Health criteria' change 'Check interval' to 10 and 'Unhealthy threshold to 3 for this particular lab
43. Click on the 'Create' button at the left bottom of this page
44. After confirming that this process is finished LOOK TO YOUR LEFT COLUMN AND "RIGHT CLICK" on 'VM Instances to open a new tab
45. You can observe your own VM's processing
46. Go back to your 'VPC' tab and click on 'firewalls'
47. Click on the button 'ADD FIRWAL RULE'
48. Type in a name for your firewall
49. Under 'Target tags' paste in the name that you used in step #23
50. Under 'Source IPv4 ranges' type in 0.0.0.0/0 
51. Check 'TCP' and input 80 for 'Ports'
52. Click on the 'CREATE' button
53. Type in Load Balancing  and choose Load balancing for Network Services
54. On this page click on 'CREATE LOAD BALANCER'
55. Choose Applicatoin Load Balancer then click the 'NEXT'button
56. Under 'Public Facing or internal' choose Public facing then click the 'Next' buton
57. Under 'Global or single region deployment choose 'Best for regional workloads' then click the 'Next' button
58. Click the 'Configure' button
59. Type in a name, choose your region, and your VPC, then click on the 'RESERVE SUBNET' button and it will bring up a small new page 
60. Type in a name and a new IP address for your new subnet(make sure you change to a different 'THIRD OCTET"!!!)
61. Goto 'Frontend configuration' and give it a name then click on the 'DONE' button
62. Under 'Backend configuration' click on the new box and click 'CREATE A BACKEND SERVICE' 
63. Give it a name, choose 'Instance group', under 'Instance group' choose yours, and type in 80 for the port numbers box
64. Click on the 'Done' button
65. Under 'Health check' box there will be a new smaller window that appears
66. Give it a name, choose TCP under 'Protocol' with Port 80, and under 'Health criteria change to 10 for 'Check interval and 3 for 'Unhealthy threshold', then click the 'Save' button
67. Click the 'Create' button
68. You can review, then click on the 'Create' button at the bottom of the page



Teardown instructions from tonight's class (4/8/25) thanks to Inconformista Roberto
1) Load balancer BY ITSELF (don't check any boxes when deleting LB)
2) Front end is deleted automatically
3) Load balancer back end
4) Instance group
5) Load balancer health check
6) Cloud NAT
7) Cloud router
8) VPC
9) instance template